markdown/prediction_new_ukraine_invasion_december2022.md, before:

# Will there be a new Russian offensive in northern Ukraine?

[TOC]

## Metaculus question

Here is the Metaculus question:

<iframe src="https://www.metaculus.com/questions/embed/14030/" width="550" height="260"></iframe>

Basically, the question is asking whether Russia or Belarus will send thousands of troops into Northern Ukraine within 6-months. Northern Ukraine is defined as the six northern oblasts (see red section of map below).

![](https://github.com/CatGilbertJr/CatGilbertJr.github.io/blob/main/figures/prediction_new_ukraine_invasion_december2022_map.png?raw=true)

## Background resources

The best background I could find on this was from the [Institute for the Study of War](https://www.understandingwar.org/sites/default/files/Russian%20Offensive%20Campaign%20Assessment%2C%20December%2015%2C%202022.pdf). Also, a [couple](https://thelookoutn.substack.com/p/belarus-and-a-new-attack-from-the) [posts](https://thelookoutn.substack.com/p/a-russian-winter-offensive-part-2?sd=pf) from the [The Lookout](https://thelookoutn.substack.com/about), this [webinar](https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/event/how-can-ukraine-prevent-a-winter-stalemate/), this Washington Post [article](https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/12/19/ukrainian-fears-grow-new-russian-invasion-belarus/), and of course, [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2022_Russian_invasion_of_Ukraine#Invasion_and_resistance). 

## Reasons on both sides 

| Reason the Northern Offensive Might Happen                   | On the other hand...                                         |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **The best defense is a good offense.** Russia is currently playing defense against multiple Ukrainian [counter](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2022_Ukrainian_southern_counteroffensive)-[offensives](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2022_Ukrainian_eastern_counteroffensive). An attack from the north would throw off Ukraine's strategy and force them to move some pieces around. | This isn't always true. For example, maybe it would be better defense for Russia to just use those military resources to reinforce their positions that are currently being attacked. |
| **The Kyiv prize.** Russia would really love to take Kyiv, and an attack from the north is the best way to do that. | Russia's first attempt at taking Kyiv, back in February, was a [disaster](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kyiv_offensive_(2022)). Russia's military has only gotten weaker, so nobody thinks Russia would have a good chance at capturing Kyiv. |
| **Warnings from Ukrainian leadership.** The top officials in Ukraine are [talking](https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/12/19/ukrainian-fears-grow-new-russian-invasion-belarus/) as if a northern offensive is inevitable. | Maybe Ukrainian leadership is playing games to try to win additional support from the West. |
| **Rumblings in Belarus.** Russia's military presence in Belarus has been increasing since [fall 2022](https://carnegieendowment.org/politika/88249), and Putin recently took his first trip there in years to have a closed-door [meeting](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/12/19/world/europe/belarus-putin-kyiv.html) with Lukashenko. | This could all be Russian deception. Also, if an attack was imminent, we would [supposedly](https://www.understandingwar.org/sites/default/files/Russian%20Offensive%20Campaign%20Assessment%2C%20December%2015%2C%202022.pdf#page=2) be seeing formation of Russian strike groups in Belarus, near the Ukrainian border. That's not happening. So right now, this is a "smoke, but no fire" situation. |
| **Russia has extra soldiers.** Russia has [150,000](https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2022/12/does-putin-even-have-a-strategy-in-ukraine-anymore.html) soldiers currently in training that would be available to conduct an offensive in the couple of months. | There are other things Russia could do with those soldiers.  |

I could definitely see this going either way. However, since (1) the strategic case for the offensive seems pretty weak; and (2) there is no hard evidence suggesting that the offensive is happening, it seems less than 50/50.

## Prediction

The probability of another Russian offensive in northern Ukraine is **30%**.

Commit message:

added HTML page for the African population question. Also fixsed the Ukraine invasion question to reflect that the Metaculus question changed significantly.

markdown/prediction_new_ukraine_invasion_december2022.md, after:

# Will there be a new Russian offensive in northern Ukraine?

[TOC]

## Metaculus question

This write-up was based on an earlier version of this question:

<iframe src="https://www.metaculus.com/questions/embed/14030/" width="550" height="260"></iframe>

However, after I wrote this, the question completely changed. Previously, the question was asking whether Russia or Belarus would send thousands of troops into Northern Ukraine within 6-months. Northern Ukraine was defined as the six northern oblasts (see red section of map below). So this write-up focuses on that question.

![](https://github.com/CatGilbertJr/CatGilbertJr.github.io/blob/main/figures/prediction_new_ukraine_invasion_december2022_map.png?raw=true)

## Background resources

The best background I could find on this was from the [Institute for the Study of War](https://www.understandingwar.org/sites/default/files/Russian%20Offensive%20Campaign%20Assessment%2C%20December%2015%2C%202022.pdf). Also, a [couple](https://thelookoutn.substack.com/p/belarus-and-a-new-attack-from-the) [posts](https://thelookoutn.substack.com/p/a-russian-winter-offensive-part-2?sd=pf) from the [The Lookout](https://thelookoutn.substack.com/about), this [webinar](https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/event/how-can-ukraine-prevent-a-winter-stalemate/), this Washington Post [article](https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/12/19/ukrainian-fears-grow-new-russian-invasion-belarus/), and of course, [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2022_Russian_invasion_of_Ukraine#Invasion_and_resistance). 

## Reasons on both sides 

| Reason the Northern Offensive Might Happen                   | On the other hand...                                         |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **The best defense is a good offense.** Russia is currently playing defense against multiple Ukrainian [counter](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2022_Ukrainian_southern_counteroffensive)-[offensives](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2022_Ukrainian_eastern_counteroffensive). An attack from the north would throw off Ukraine's strategy and force them to move some pieces around. | This isn't always true. For example, maybe it would be better defense for Russia to just use those military resources to reinforce their positions that are currently being attacked. |
| **The Kyiv prize.** Russia would really love to take Kyiv, and an attack from the north is the best way to do that. | Russia's first attempt at taking Kyiv, back in February, was a [disaster](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kyiv_offensive_(2022)). Russia's military has only gotten weaker, so nobody thinks Russia would have a good chance at capturing Kyiv. |
| **Warnings from Ukrainian leadership.** The top officials in Ukraine are [talking](https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/12/19/ukrainian-fears-grow-new-russian-invasion-belarus/) as if a northern offensive is inevitable. | Maybe Ukrainian leadership is playing games to try to win additional support from the West. |
| **Rumblings in Belarus.** Russia's military presence in Belarus has been increasing since [fall 2022](https://carnegieendowment.org/politika/88249), and Putin recently took his first trip there in years to have a closed-door [meeting](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/12/19/world/europe/belarus-putin-kyiv.html) with Lukashenko. | This could all be Russian deception. Also, if an attack was imminent, we would [supposedly](https://www.understandingwar.org/sites/default/files/Russian%20Offensive%20Campaign%20Assessment%2C%20December%2015%2C%202022.pdf#page=2) be seeing formation of Russian strike groups in Belarus, near the Ukrainian border. That's not happening. So right now, this is a "smoke, but no fire" situation. |
| **Russia has extra soldiers.** Russia has [150,000](https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2022/12/does-putin-even-have-a-strategy-in-ukraine-anymore.html) soldiers currently in training that would be available to conduct an offensive in the couple of months. | There are other things Russia could do with those soldiers.  |

I could definitely see this going either way. However, since (1) the strategic case for the offensive seems pretty weak; and (2) there is no hard evidence suggesting that the offensive is happening, it seems less than 50/50.

## Prediction

The probability of another Russian offensive in northern Ukraine is **30%**.
